by donating money to this cause you are
supporting quack therapy that kills
people you are supporting a treatment
center that preys off of people's
desperation and their fear of surgery
medication chemotherapy and radiation so
what is the truth about the Gerson
Therapy you may be asking well the truth
is um the Gerson Therapy themselves will
never tell you the truth because if they
do then that person amount of business
and quite frankly the truth is doesn't
work changing your diet to start
ingesting the I think it's likely 13
pounds worth of fruit and vegetables you
need a day even juiced is incredibly
unhealthy taking the six coffee enemas a
day that will a give you a really good
chance to end up killing you and deep by
dehydration caused massive problems by
taking loads of potassium out of you and
be doing potentially so much damage to
your colon that you lose control of it
meaning that you will be put on a
colostomy bag that is that is what
essentially the truth is about the
Gerson Therapy it is dangerous it calms
people into thinking that they somehow
have this hope when there is no hope
Gerson Therapy really has nothing to do
with veganism Gerson Therapy is a cancer
treatment protocol and it's a rare case
of a controversial topic on which I can
recommend you see the Wikipedia article
the Wikipedia article on max Gerson the
inventor of this therapy is remarkably
robust well sighted and factual you
can't you can't consult Wikipedia for
anything about Cambodia anything about
Buddhism anything about Canadian
politics even Wikipedia can't handle the
wikipedia has a remarkable denunciation
of Gerson Therapy and the reasons why
it's not approved for use in the United
States other important facts about this
this
approach to cancer therapy you can get
straight at a Wikipedia with with no
problem at all and like anything else
there are people on the internet who
defend Gerson Therapy there are people
on the Internet you defend it literally
with their dying breaths and there are
people who bitterly condemned it for
killing their loved ones or giving their
loved ones false hope when their loved
ones were trying to get legitimate
treatment for their disease
and instead only got worse and worse
thanks to this very expensive and at
least shall we say unproven approach
against the therapy I think it's rather
sad that a natural vegan is receiving so
much criticism for having taken a stand
on this issue and I think it relates to
a larger question or a larger issue of
having guts of taking risks when you're
gonna talk about politics I guess even
if you're gonna talk about questions of
health and nutrition you're on youtube I
actually sent a natural vegan fan mail
when she first made that video or when I
first saw it I think I saw the time it
came out because I respected the risk
she had taken I really understood
immediately how controversial would be
how bitterly she would be hated for
making her statement on Gerson Therapy
and I knew that there would be people
attached to particular patients people
who who died or people who tried to you
know get treatment in their dying days
through the the Gerson Treatment Center
I either people here for that reason I
could immediately imagine a bunch of
different angles from which she would
catch heat or she would be despised or
ridiculed for having taken a stand on
this I saw a comment from someone who
claims to be a personal friend a
relative of of Jennifer Lucy one
particular woman who spent her dying
days seeking out this treatment and
actually raising money so she could get
this dream she could afford this
treatment and one of the you know
statements in passing there from someone
who's apparently a relative or friend of
someone who got this treatment said well
I don't care at all if this treatment is
just a placebo effect you know it made
my made my loved one happy so I don't
care in the
if the effect is merely a placebo well
there are some people in the world who
care passionately whether or not it's a
placebo effect there are some of us for
whom it is actually of crucial
importance whether or not this is a
placebo effect or whether this is
legitimate medicine and for whom for
some of us that's that's really a
life-or-death matter because ultimately
it does relate to whether or not other
people getting that treatment live or
die and I understand you're gonna be
perceived as Cavalier insensitive
offensive in the extreme that you're
gonna hurt people's feelings if you come
out and make a stand as a natural vegan
did and saying no this is not legitimate
science there's a good reason in this
case why the different American
government authorities do not approve
this treatment and there are some other
channels there's one nail called a
bowler hat man of videos really delving
into the history of how this treatment
even came about Boulevard Man has videos
he read the original book that this
treatment is based on the book by max
Gerson that first proposed these ideas
the original case studies of people
allegedly being cured or improving
because of this treatment and and so on
it's no laughing matter but for me I
mean the broader question is really one
of having guts of taking risks
I've very often put up videos on a topic
within veganism and then I search
YouTube to see who else has made a video
on the topic because I think they're
major important issues and I can't find
anything as a huge number of videos
about a certain boyfriend and breaking
up with his girlfriend within veganism
right now there's a huge number videos
about my own divorce my divorce happened
three years ago and there's nothing
interesting or setting about it but a
lot of people want to talk about that
now of course that's shallow and that's
caddy and that's gossip but it's also
safe you know you're not really taking a
risk by gossiping about another vegan
sex life you're also not really making
any contribution to the future of the
movement or the progress the progress of
science shall we say or what have you
when I made the videos criticizing Sam
Harris you know it's taking at risk and
people hated me for that there
there are organized fans of Sam Harris
Sam Harris has continued to take a kind
of wishy-washy position on veganism and
vegetarianism he seems to change his
position every few months and at some
points he's been kind of openly
anti-vegan saying that he tried it but
just couldn't do it and at other points
he said he's trying again or
what-have-you
sam Harris is I think the kind of high
profile figure who really deserves
criticism perhaps encouragement whatever
reserves a response from vegan voices on
YouTube and I see him just not getting
it but yeah that there is an element of
risk there I think there are still
people watching this video today there
are people who are regular viewers of
mine who discovered this channel because
of my criticism of Noam Chomsky Noam
Chomsky is a huge number of fans the
internet organized fans if you're gonna
come out and criticize Noam Chomsky as I
did for what he has to say about
veganism and animal rights you're gonna
get a considerable amount of heat of
criticism of negative response for
daring to say that this incident with
Gerson Therapy with unnatural vegan
taking senators therapy at the only time
I can really remember her taking a stand
that way of taking a risk and I wish
she'd do more of it but yeah I think if
you're gonna come out and talk about
anything meaningful and really important
within veganism within vegan politics
there is an element of risk and I think
it's sad to see someone like a natural
vegan being punished for having taken
that risk on something that is of
profound importance to her it's not
important everyone I just quoted this
one person says they don't care in the
least whether this is a placebo effect
or it's a real medicinal effect well for
some of us that's extremely important
that's the meaning of life that's a
matter of life and death that's a matter
of science versus pseudoscience or
whatever it's it's to some people that's
that's incredibly important and I have
to ask you guys to sympathize the
natural vegan to an extent even if a
natural vegan were wrong and if you read
that Wikipedia article I think you'll be
convinced that she's not gone
I think you have to sympathize with her
perspective because from her perspective
she is opposing a dangerous form of
pseudoscience that actually costs human
lives that gives false hope to the sick
that takes money away from people who
probably don't have that money to spare
and that ultimately does result in
deaths for people I've asked that kind
of question before on the many videos on
this channel about vivisection again a
risky topic why doesn't a natural vegan
address that I'd love it if other people
would take these risks and really talk
about the other section the use of
animals and medical sciences there are
so many issues where I feel like I'm the
only person willing to take that risk
and people do hate me because I spoke
about vivisection within within veganism
um I asked you to sympathize the
scientist even if that scientist is
wrong if you were a scientist who really
believed you were doing important
research finding the cure for cancer but
finding that cure for cancer involved
killing animals in a world where the
other people working in that laboratory
are probably wearing leather shoes
everyday leather shoes kill animals and
don't find a cure for cancer don't make
the world a better place in any way
whatsoever etc etc I think you can
sympathize even if the scientist is
wrong even if his research turns out to
be worthless and useless and discovers
nothing I think you can still sympathize
with the perspective that leads him or
Houdon to make that choice to commit to
torturing animals to death in a
laboratory because something is so
important it certainly should be much
easier for us to sympathise with someone
like a natural vegan being a bit
insensitive being a bit crass being a
bit of a jerk but to do so on a topic
that is of such tremendous importance to
her from her perspective many of you see
this as lacking compassion even those of
you who acknowledge that gearson therapy
is [ __ ] you believe that to deny a
dying woman her final wish to die in
peace and comfort is just cruel you
aren't giving money to help Jen when you
donate you are giving money to quack
therapy and con men who are preying on
Jen
these people will use your money to
advertise their services to more victims
after they've finished with Jen only
luring away more people from legitimate
medical treatment and to their deaths a
vadas yen